Initial implementation (#2)
makerdao/rates-conv: README.md

## Conv

**Onchain repository for DSS rates**

> Conv stores all per-second DSS rates for annualized BPSs in a single on-chain repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On-chain repository for MCD rates.

`Conv` stores all per-second MCD rates for annualized BPSs in a single on-chain repository.

It allows to convert BPS into `RAY` accumulators and _vice versa_.
```

### Motivation

Useful for validation using human-friendly notation, which drastically reduces the cognitive overhead when checking rates.

Requirements:

> - The rates need to have full precision compared to rates currently used in DSS (https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmVp4mhhbwWGTfbh2BzwQB9eiBrQBKiqcPRZCaAxNUaar6)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The rates need to have full precision compared to rates currently used in MCD (https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmVp4mhhbwWGTfbh2BzwQB9eiBrQBKiqcPRZCaAxNUaar6)
```

- Read cost should be reasonable, allowing other components of the system to use it without too much overhead.
- The contract needs to be deployable efficiently (low priority, one time cost).

### Design

We explored several ways to store or calculate rates onchain and arrive at this approach, for details see [this](https://github.com/dewiz-xyz/conv-research).

The contract makes use of optimized storage to ease the cost of deployment. Each rate is stored as `rate - RAY`, so only the relevant part of the rate takes space in storage. Each rate is stored in 8 bytes, so every storage position fits exactly four rates.

On reads, the function `btor(bps)` will fetch the correct storage slot, fetch the desired rate within it, add one RAY and return the result

> 

Reviewer: We need a short paragraph on `rtob` as well.

Author: Done in [bfcd30b](https://github.com/dewiz-xyz/rates-conv/pull/2/commits/bfcd30b0c9438c3998da2dc4547df6c1b589dc3b).

## Conv

On-chain repository for MCD rates.

`Conv` stores all per-second MCD rates for annualized BPSs in a single on-chain repository.

It allows to convert BPS into `RAY` accumulators and _vice versa_.

### Motivation

Useful for validation using human-friendly notation, which drastically reduces the cognitive overhead when checking rates.

Requirements:

> - The rates need to have full precision compared to rates currently used in MCD (https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmVp4mhhbwWGTfbh2BzwQB9eiBrQBKiqcPRZCaAxNUaar6)

Reviewer: Please add the [source](https://github.com/makerdao/pe-checklists/blob/161895d52e144fec1e4d8cca52f1379ce63950cb/spell/spell-reviewer-mainnet-checklist.md?plain=1#L77) for this URL so it can be trusted.

Author: Done in [a36dec2](https://github.com/dewiz-xyz/rates-conv/pull/2/commits/a36dec2706583371bab6a8f338a78025cb6fb1e9).

- Read cost should be reasonable, allowing other components of the system to use it without too much overhead.
- The contract needs to be deployable efficiently (low priority, one time cost).

### Design

We explored several ways to store or calculate rates onchain and arrive at this approach, for details see [this](https://github.com/dewiz-xyz/conv-research).

The contract makes use of optimized storage to ease the cost of deployment. Each rate is stored as `rate - RAY`, so only the relevant part of the rate takes space in storage. Each rate is stored in 8 bytes, so every storage position fits exactly four rates.

On reads, the function `btor(bps)` will fetch the correct storage slot, fetch the desired rate within it, add one RAY and return the result.

The contract also includes a conversion function `rtob(ray)` that calculates the annualized BPS rate from the per-second rate.

### Limitations

- Since rates are stored in 8 bytes, the max BPS that can be used without reimplementing this contract is **7891**.

> - EIP-170: Due to contract size limits on Ethereum mainnet, the ceiling for rates is 6k. On L2s that do not enforce the limit this does not apply.

Reviewer 2: How is EIP170 a limiting factor here? The rates are not part of the contract code in the current implementation.

Reviewer 2: I guess you were referring to the `initcode` limits induced by EIP3860 here? This would indeed correspond to a ~5980 rates limit with the rate encoding scheme used here.

Reviewer 2: Can be resolved.

> - Gas cost of deployment: With the current 30M block gas ceiling on Ethereum mainnet, up to ~5.5k rates can be stored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Gas cost of deployment: With the current ~36M block gas ceiling on Ethereum mainnet, up to ~5.5k rates can be stored in a single transaction.
```

## Deployments

> - **5000bps Ethereum Mainnet**: tbd

Reviewer: Let's add the deployed address here.

Author: done in [38828bf](https://github.com/makerdao/rates-conv/pull/2/commits/38828bf1736d82694231cf1601036b64c1618bc7)
